[excel] (Shapes) An article for the upcoming Shape APIs (#837)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/excel-add-ins-shapes.md

    var shapes = context.workbook.worksheets.getItem("MyWorksheet").shapes;
    var rectangle = shapes.addGeometricShape(Excel.GeometricShapeType.rectangle);
    rectangle.left = 100;
    rectangle.top = 100;
    rectangle.height = 150;
    rectangle.width = 150;
    rectangle.name = "Square";
    return context.sync();
}).catch(errorHandlerFunction);
```

### Images

JPEG, PNG, and SVG images can be inserted into a worksheet as shapes. The `ShapeCollection.addImage` method takes a base64-encoded string as an argument. This is either a JPEG or PNG image in string form. `ShapeCollection.addSvg` also takes in a string, though this argument is XML that defines the graphic.

The following code sample shows an image file being loaded by a [FileReader](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/FileReader) as a string. The string has the metadata "base64," removed before the shape is created.

```js
// This sample creates an image as a Shape object in the worksheet.
var myFile = document.getElementById("selectedFile");
var reader = new FileReader();

reader.onload = (event) => {
    Excel.run(function (context) {
        var startIndex = event.target.result.indexOf("base64,");

>         var myBase64 = event.target.result.substr(startIndex + 7);

Author: indexOf returns the index of the first character in "base64,", so the +7 is to get past those seven characters.

>         var myBase64 = event.target.result.substr(startIndex + 7);

Reviewer: I get it. Thanks.

// This sample creates a straight line from [200,50] to [300,150] on the worksheet
Excel.run(function (context) {
    var shapes = context.workbook.worksheets.getItem("MyWorksheet").shapes;
    var line = shapes.addLine(200, 50, 300, 150, Excel.ConnectorType.straight);
    line.name = "StraightLine";
    return context.sync();
}).catch(errorHandlerFunction);
```

Lines can be connected to other Shape objects. The `connectBeginShape` and `connectEndShape` methods attach the beginning and ending of a line to shapes at the specified connection points. The locations of these points vary by shape, but the `Shape.connectionSiteCount` can be used to ensure your add-in does not connect to a point that's out-of-bounds. A line is disconnected from any attached shapes using the `disconnectBeginShape` and `disconnectEndShape` methods.

The following code sample connects the **"MyLine"** line to two shapes named **"LeftShape"** and **"RightShape"**.

```js
// This sample connects a line between two shapes at connection points '0' and '3'.
Excel.run(function (context) {
    var shapes = context.workbook.worksheets.getItem("MyWorksheet").shapes;
    var line = shapes.getItem("MyLine").line;

>     line.connectBeginShape(shapes.getItem("LeftShape"), 0);

Reviewer: I can't run this in Script Lab. The methods Line.connectBeginShape and Line.connectEndShape do not seem to be in the beta d.ts.

Author: Hmm, it's working for me (I have a sample in Script Lab that uses them). Those methods were renamed a couple weeks ago.  Please double check the libraries or use the SL sample and let me know if there's still problems.

    line.connectEndShape(shapes.getItem("RightShape"), 3);
    return context.sync();
}).catch(errorHandlerFunction);
```

## Move and resize shapes

Shapes sit on top of the worksheet. Their placement is defined by the `left` and `top` property. These act as margins from worksheet's respective edges, with [0, 0] being the upper-left corner. These can either be set directly or adjusted from their current position with the `incrementLeft` and `incrementTop` methods. How much a shape is rotated from the default position is also established in this manner, with the `rotation` property being the absolute amount and the `incrementRotation` method adjusting the existing rotation.

> A shape's depth relative to other shapes is defining by the `zorderPosition` property. This is set using the `setZOrder` method, which takes a [ShapeZOrder](/javascript/api/excel/excel.shapezorder). `setZOrder` adjusts the ordering of the current shape relative to the other shapes.

Reviewer: "defining" should be "defined"

> Your add-in has a couple options for changing the height and width of shapes. Setting the `height` and `width` properties change that dimension without changing the other dimension. The `scaleHeight` and `scaleWidth` adjust the shape's respective dimensions relative to either the current or original size (based on the value of the provided [ShapeScaleType](/javascript/api/excel/excel.shapescaletype)). An optional [ShapeScaleFrom](/javascript/api/excel/excel.shapescalefrom) parameter specifies from where the shape scales (top-left corner, middle, or bottom-right corner). If the `lockAspectRatio` property is **true**, the scale methods maintain the shape's current aspect ratio by also adjusting the other dimension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your add-in has a couple options for changing the height and width of shapes. Setting either the `height` or `width` property changes the specified dimension without changing the other dimension. The `scaleHeight` and `scaleWidth` adjust the shape's respective dimensions relative to either the current or original size (based on the value of the provided [ShapeScaleType](/javascript/api/excel/excel.shapescaletype)). An optional [ShapeScaleFrom](/javascript/api/excel/excel.shapescalefrom) parameter specifies from where the shape scales (top-left corner, middle, or bottom-right corner). If the `lockAspectRatio` property is **true**, the scale methods maintain the shape's current aspect ratio by also adjusting the other dimension.
```

    wave.height = 50;
    wave.width = 150;
    wave.name = "Wave";
    wave.fill.setSolidColor("lightblue");
    wave.textFrame.textRange.text = "Shape text";
    wave.textFrame.textRange.font.color = "purple";
    wave.textFrame.horizontalAlignment = Excel.ShapeTextHorizontalAlignment.center;
    return context.sync();
}).catch(errorHandlerFunction);
```

The `addTextBox` method of `ShapeCollection` creates a `GeometricShape` of type `Rectangle` with a white background and black text. This is the same as what is created by Excel's **Text Box** button on the **Insert** tab. `addTextBox` takes a string argument to set the text of the `TextRange`.

The following code sample shows the creation of a text box with the text "Hello!".

```js
// This sample creates a text box with the text "Hello!" and sizes it appropriately.
Excel.run(function (context) {
    var shapes = context.workbook.worksheets.getItem("MyWorksheet").shapes;
    var textbox = shapes.addTextBox("Hello!");
    textbox.left = 100;
    textbox.top = 100;
    textbox.height = 20;
    textbox.width = 45;
    textbox.name = "Textbox";
    return context.sync();
}).catch(errorHandlerFunction);
```

## Shape groups

> Shapes can be grouped together. This allows a user to treat them as a single entity. A [ShapeGroup](/javascript/api/excel/excel.shapegroup) is a type of `Shape`, so your add-in treats the group as a single shape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shapes can be grouped together. This allows a user to treat them as a single entity for purposes of positioning, sizing, etc. A [ShapeGroup](/javascript/api/excel/excel.shapegroup) is a type of `Shape`, so your add-in treats the group as a single shape.
```

The following code sample shows three shapes being grouped together. The subsequent code sample shows that shape group being moved to the right 50 pixels.

```js
// This sample takes three previously-created shapes ("Square", "Pentagon", and "Octagon")
// and groups them into a single ShapeGroup.
Excel.run(function (context) {
    var shapes = context.workbook.worksheets.getItem("MyWorksheet").shapes;
    var square = shapes.getItem("Square");
    var pentagon = shapes.getItem("Pentagon");
    var octagon = shapes.getItem("Octagon");

    var shapeGroup = shapes.addGroup([square, pentagon, octagon]);
    shapeGroup.name = "Group";
    console.log("Shapes grouped");

    return context.sync();
}).catch(errorHandlerFunction);

// This sample moves the previously created shape group to the right by 50 pixels.
Excel.run(function (context) {
    var shapes = context.workbook.worksheets.getItem("MyWorksheet").shapes;
    var shapeGroup = sheet.shapes.getItem("Group");
    shapeGroup.incrementLeft(50);
    return context.sync();
}).catch(errorHandlerFunction);
```

> Individual shapes within the group are referenced through the `ShapeGroup.shapes` property, which is of type [GroupShapeCollection](/javascript/api/excel/excel.GroupShapeCollection). They are no longer accessible through the worksheet's shape collection after being grouped. As an example, if your worksheet had three shapes and they were all grouped together, the worksheet's `shapes.getCount` method would return a count of 1.

Reviewer: This paragraph seems like an important gotcha. I suggest putting it in an Important! note.
